Welcome back all. So
today I am going to
show you the for each loop.
What you see on
the screen here are some
fairly new concept,
let me just bring my
notes up to another
screen. So first of
all, you have this an
unknown this here
this is the for each
loop this here as well
this here as well and this
is just the for loop.
Let me just format this
little bit, there we go.
So anyway the
reason why I'm actually
returned the code
that I am doing the lecture over the
written code is because, well somebody
decided to turn on a vacuum in the
middle of my previous cast and I was
kind of hoping that the
sound wouldn't reach
this room but unfortunately
it did and I
wasted twenty minutes
of my life that I
will never get back.
Anyway for each
loop, now to explain
this type of loop,
we first need to
know what container
types are, for now
let's say that we know
what arrays are and
we will learn about
them in the later
chapters or in the
later chapters if
I'm not mistaken so
but we need to assume that
we know them in order to be able to
explain the for each
loop, now for each loop
is specific to C++ 11
standards so you do
need to go into
settings compiler and
all this flag here
so it says have
C++ follow the C++ 11 ISO C++
language standard
just go ahead and
click on it, you can
you can read about it
later, if you want
you can expand this area and you can
also read in the net the C++
standards are, eleven standards are. click OK
anyway so as I said I didn't want to
make an absolute course that is for C++
as it was back in the day I wanted to
make a course that would show you how
C++ is it today and
include pretty much
all the latest
features which are all
the latest features that I could in fact
there are some
features it from C++
11 in the keylogger
course that I mean
it hasn't even been
a month since the features have been
enabled in the official compiler I'm not
actually sure about that anyway
Anyway, so the for each
loop is only for C++
11 step for C++ 11
and as I said we are
going to assume for the
time being that we know what arrays are I
will talk about them
later on, basically
this is an integer
array, this is a double
array, an integer array
is basically just a
combination of integers,
you have 5,4,1,2
3, -2 a W ray can consist of
1,1,2,2,6,1,3,5 etc and so on and so forth
they consist out of elements enclosed
within these curly brackets and now
they're index each one of these numbers
actually has a position and positions
begin like this so 11 would be at a
position 0; 22 would be at a position 12
this is position 3, so 0,1,2,3.
four numbers
in total sometimes it
can be a little bit
confusing to have 0123,
four numbers four
elements, does it have
to be four numbers
four elements in
total four numbers
because this is a
double array but array
of type double and we know what type
double is, but it could have been a
character we could
have had characters
we could have had an
array of strings or whatever
a lot of things so
which one of these
numbers, could have
been like a word
which one could have been a word or
something like that doesn't really
matter, there are so
many variants here its
hillarious. Anyway,
that is irrelevant
what I need these types and you to include them here
because I need to explain what for each
loop was without them it would have been
kind of difficult or
should I say, probably
impossible to an extent I
could have chosen to use
more complex types but I just chosen to
use these by for explanation purposes
as I said, take what you know
now and you would basically access these
elements by typing in arr
let's see zero so this would be an
equivalent of number five or the first
element of the array as the index begins
from zero and not from one I will
explain this in
more depth later on
anyway so let's go
to be subject off
this tutorial into the for each loop, now
here you can see the syntax of the for
each loop which roughly translates as
for each element in container or
collection so you
have for and then you
have a parenthesis
open you specify some
sort of a type here and then you
supply the variable
name, use a colon
and then you specify the container of
your choosing our container will be the
variable int arr, the array.
Anyway this
particular example
will print out each
element of the array
in the next row so
that is, variable I
will hold the value
from each element of the array, so you
see here for each iteration it will go
like this I will be, i
don't know, I will be
zero and then it will
print then you will
have a printout of sorry arr
0 which will be
equivalent to number
five and so on and
so forth you don't
need to specify range or anything like
that here, you just use the
container and then
use a variable for
iteration you don't
need to initialize
it or anything like that it just stands
for each element it begins from zero and
it goes to the end that's it so you have
that variable which
you will use for it for iteration or
whatever you wish to call it and here
you have the container over
whose elements you wish to
iterate so you will go one element
that the time it will begin from the
index as 0 and it will end wherever the
array pretty much ends, simple as that
now it will printed them out onto the screen and it will go
into a new line for
each print out the
same thing will happen
here except here
we're using a double instead
of an int so you see it's
an int here and and we're
printing out and onto the
screen but here printing
out doubles and
we can also use the
auto keyword that we
have learned previously to automatic to
detect the type in an automated fashion
so we don't have to actually specify the
type, this is going to be very useful
later on, all three of these examples
pretty much do the same exact thing
these two are exactly the same the only
difference between them is the types
that they're using and this one is
somewhat different as it has a generic
type so this can be
pretty much I the
arr to can be pretty
much off any type
it can be a double,
can be an integer, it
can be a floating-point,
it can be whatever
whatever is allowed
so to say and down
below I have used a
for loop in order to
demonstrate how the for each loop would
look how what we have done with the for
each loop would look like if we have
done if we had done it with a for loop
so you can see here
we begin at index 0
we set the condition
that I is less than
or equal to five and then we reiterate over the I
by fact by one and then we printed out
we print out the first element of the
array and the second and the third, fourth,
fifth etc. Now this array has
1,2,3,4,5,6 elements,
so why is I less
or equal to 5 here,
what do you think?
well because the iteration starts at
zero so count with me here
012345 that's six numbers if you include
the zero and therefore the boundary is
five size of the array is six
meaning we have it contains six elements
and therefore if you want to iterate
over all the six
elements meaning from 0
to 5 it's a little
bit counterintuitive
yes but not much of a
problem you get the
hang of it and you
get used to it so
down below whe are
printing out I first has
the value of zero and
arr 0 that's just
five and then I changes to one and that's
four and changes to two, that's one
etc so on and so forth.
So let's go
ahead and compile
and run this and
there you go you see
how this first print
out occurred so this
is 54123 and -2
so this that we're looking at the
first for each loop and as you can see
it worked flawlessly perfectly each
element of the array was printed out
second loop that
we're looking at is
double again the
printout is correct oh
sure you can go ahead
and check it out
for yourself if you
wish to choose or
prefer I do it and finally the third
printout finally what the third
point out that happened was four but
with auto generic type
by using auto keyword
for detecting
the type in an automated
fashion and it's basically begins from
1122 6135 and down below we just
have a demonstration of the for loop how
it would look like if we had been at the
for loop and here we
have the printout
for which day for
loop was used in a
sense now let me show you one more thing
that I want to do here you see just a
show you for each loop is C++ 11
exclusive so, if you're going to compiler
and if we disable
this, but we have
enabled previously,
if we try to build
and run okay it does
I think I need to reset
11 it is disabled
strangely does run
ok let me just do a
Save, control+s and
then build and run
it again it builds
and runs let me just
where is it? that
controlled be in this one
and then run it it
works again let's
build it ok so just
go ahead and reset
it again you can reopen
it by going into the
folder where you have
saved it, I have in the
chapter four loops and straight here I can
open it up from here, because
in C++ standards were
enabled just remember that for some
strange reason ok so go into there
surprisingly it does build and run
Ok there was a problem here
process terminated with status blah blah
blah forget about that
checking for existence
yeah, does work.
Anyway I have precompiled
that before and I
am would need to actually delete the
whole thing and then re do it just showed
that doesn't actually work but I can't
believe it I really can't I have to have
to make a proof
otherwise I will have
shamed myself, ok
let's have just copy
the entire pro just
copy the entire main
file and let's open
up codeblocks and
you don't have to
do this, I'm just
making a proof of
concept here project
it's going to be C++ sure it's going to be tralalala and semicolon shouldn't be there
finish. Goodbye standard main and welcome
our project there you go
so error you see here
it says red light
error range based
for loops are not
allowed in C++ 98 mode,
so you do indeed
require C++ 11 in order
for this compile
and he just proved it by going into
compiler one more time
C++ 11 ISO ok let's run
there you ago, it's
now it works sorry I
don't find my way
around codeblocks that
easily, I'm really
out of shape in terms
of codeblock I
haven't used it in a
very long time but
it's best used for
learning and then
later on people generally tend to move
to something else but it's
really nice for learning
anyway there you
ago I have proven
what I have stated I
didn't leave it had just
take my word for it.
Anyway I shall see you
in the follow tutorial
where we shall deal with
break and continue. what they are? how
they function? and what we use them for?
I will explain that in the follow tutorial.